---
title: " "
image: labpic.jpeg
about: marquee
---

I am currently working in the Oleson Lab in University of Hawaii (Manoa) as I pursue my PhD. I work on the **Natural Capital Accounting (NCA)** project in the lab, which applies national accounting methods[^1] (used to compile metrics such as GDP) to systematically assess coastal ecosystems' contribution to the Hawaiian economy and engage with decision makers to catalyze transformative change in conservation and economic policy.

[^1]: Applying [UN SEEA EA](https://seea.un.org/ecosystem-accounting/) accounting frameworks

Hawaiian coastal waters are uniquely impacted by climate change, land use, and resource harvest levels that threaten coastal functioning. Hawaiʻi's reliance on its coasts for wellbeing and revenue, its blend of worldviews, and the centrality of environmental stewardship in Hawaiian culture, make the state a uniquely powerful place to demonstrate and refine the science of coastal natural capital accounting. Moreover, engagement with the state using accounts to inform coastal policy can serve as an example for Pacific island neighbours.

An ecosystem account begins with synthesising information about the extent, condition, and use of the natural environment of the landscape and seascape, focusing on locally relevant biophysical metrics of natural capital assets and ecosystem service flows. The process is designed to provide an evidence base for understanding and mapping natural capital, evaluating its status and trends, and exploring its relationship with priority economic sectors and livelihoods.

Building the accounts involves compiling time series data for land and coastal habitats. We rely on remotely sensed products for terrestrial layers, and a state-wide data collaborative for marine benthic layers. Second, we synthesize existing data for relevant conditions such as fish stocks, coral cover, and water quality. Third, we quantify use with a focus on fisheries, recreation, tourism, and shoreline protection, using a combination of ecosystem service models, surveys, and secondary data. When feasible and appropriate, we are valuing and monetizing these ecosystem services using both standard non-market valuation techniques.
